---
tags:
  - checklist
  - customer_discovery/discovery_phase1
---

# Product Features And Benefits
*All Channels*
**Goal: Explain what the product is and why people will buy and use it**
Reference: Chapter 4, Product Features/Benefits Hypothesis and Low-Fidelity MVP Hypothesis

## What problem or need are you solving?
- [ ] What do you think the biggest *pain* is in how customers work/play?
- [ ] If they could wave a magic wand and change anything what would it be?
- [ ] How does the product solve those problems or needs?
- [ ] What do people do today to solve their problem?
## Product Feature List
- [ ] 10 one- or two-sentence descriptions of product features
- [ ] Explain the general goal of the product
- [ ] Does it address a market niche or segment?
- [ ] Does it solve a problem or address a need in a new, different, faster or cheaper way?
## Product Benefits List
- [ ] List the benefits through the customer’s eyes
- [ ] Something new? Better? More? Faster? Cheaper? Etc.
- [ ] Underneath the features above, summarize benefits for each
- [ ] Will these Benefits be accepted as such or do they need explanation?
## Describe the Minimum Viable Product (MVP)
- [ ] What do you want to learn?
- [ ] From who?
- [ ] What is the smallest feature set?
## Create a One-Page User Story
- [ ] Include product vision, features, benefits
## Exit criteria:
- [ ] Describe the product’s features and benefits
- [ ] Describe the MVP
- [ ] Create a User Story describing what job the product will do
- [ ] Update your business model canvas

- [ ] **Pass/Fail tests identified**

**Checklist 5**