---
tags:
  - checklist
  - customer_discovery/discovery_phase1
---

# Customer Segments
*All Channels*
**Goal: Develop a hypothesis of who your customers are and what problems they have that will drive them to use your product**
Reference: Chapter 4, Customer Segments and Source Hypotheses

## Define the Customer Problem
- [ ] Does the customer have a latent, passive, active or vision problem/need?
## Define the Customer type
- [ ] Define the distinctly different types of “customer”
- [ ] Who will be the actual day-to-day users of the product?
- [ ] Who are the influencers and recommenders?
- [ ] Who is the “Economic Buyer”? (i.e. whose budget will pay for it?)
- [ ] Do you think the Economic Buyer has an existing budget for this product or do they need to get one approved?
- [ ] Who are the “Decision Makers?”
- [ ] Who else needs to approve the purchase? And who can kill it?
## What are the Customer’s wants and needs?
- [ ] Rated on a “problem recognition scale”
- [ ] Does product solve a mission-critical company problem or satisfy a must-have customer need?
- [ ] How painful is this problem?

- [ ] **Draw the Customer Archetypes**
- [ ] **Draw the Day in the life of a customer – before and after your product**

## Draw the Organizational and customer influence maps
- [ ] List those who could influence a customer’s buying decision
- [ ] Consider the product’s influence on his daily life
## Exit criteria:
- [ ] Customer types and problem or need
- [ ] Customer archetypes
- [ ] Depict a day in the life of a customer
- [ ] Organizational and customer influence maps
- [ ] Update your business model canvas

- [ ] **Pass/Fail tests identified**

**Checklist 6**
